# Writing plugins for CHIRP

---

## Requirements

At minimum each new plugin should add two files: `__init__.py` and a file that
contains the plugin logic. There are extra actions that must be taken if trying
to compile CHIRP. See more in the [Known Issues](#Known-issues) section below.

### \_\_init\_\_.py

#### REQUIRED

- A variable named `entrypoint`, with the value being the plugin's *main* function.
**WHICH MUST BE ASYNCHRONOUS**

#### OPTIONAL

- A variable named `REQUIRED_OS`, which can be a singular string value, tuple or
list. Acceptable parameters are *Windows*, *MacOS*, and *Linux*. If `REQUIRED_OS`
is not specified, will run on any OS.
- A variable named `REQUIRED_ADMIN`, which accepts a bool value. If this value is
true, the plugin will only run in an admin console. If `REQUIRED_ADMIN` is not
specified, will run in any context.

#### EXAMPLE

From `chirp.plugins.events.__init__`

```python
from . import __scan__        # Import the file containing our main function

REQUIRED_OS = "Windows"       # Specify this will only run on Windows
REQUIRED_ADMIN = True         # Specify this required administrator privileges
entrypoint = __scan__.run     # Set `entrypoint` to `__scan__.run` function.
```

### Entrypoint

The entrypoint of the plugin must only accept one parameter, `indicators`, which
is a ***dict-toolbox*** `NameSpaceDict`. This data is generated by our indicator
loading method and has a specific format at the head:

```json
{
    indicator_name {
        description: a description of the ioc,
        confidence: an integer indicating fidelity of the ioc,
        ioc_type: the name of your plugin,
        indicator: {
            ...
        }
    }
    second_indicator_name {
        ...
    }
    third_indicator_name {
        ...
    }
}
```

The values underneath *indicator* are entirely up to the plugin author. However,
with this json input a plugin should be able to run their logic and provide
useful output.

## Optional Helpers

CHIRP provides multiple helper functions/capabilities to plugin authors.

### Logging Methods

In `chirp.common` we have multiple logging methods. These methods will or will
not print out based on the log level set with -l/--log-level. They all accept
some string input and print to the program log.

- `INFO()`: Precedes output with green \[\+\]
- `ERROR()`: Precedes output with red \[\-\]
- `CRITICAL()`: Precedes output with cyan \[\!\]
- `DEBUG()`: Precedes output with yellow \[\?\]
- `CONSOLE()`: Raw output to log output.

### Typing

In `chirp.common`, a type (`JSON`) is added for JSON compatible data.

### Report Output

In `chirp.common`, a method (`build_report`) is added to easily create JSON
writeable output from indicators.

Given the first indicator in our example in [Entrypoint](##Entrypoint),
`build_report` outputs:

```json
{
    indicator_name {
        description: a description of the ioc,
        confidence: an integer indicating fidelity of the ioc,
        matches: []
    }
}
```

Matches for an indicator can be easily appended to the *matches* list, then the
report can be written out to a JSON file.

### Operators

CHIRP adds various operations in `chirp.plugins.operators`. This is used by
multiple plugins built in to CHIRP to search through data.

`operators` has a primary method, `searcher`, which expects 2 arguments and takes
an optional third:

```python
searcher(check_value: Any, item: Any, key: Any = None) -> Union[bool, None]
```

- `check_value`: A search string like "== Lobster Thermidor aux crevettes with a
Mornay sauce, garnished with truffle pâté, brandy and a fried egg on top, and
Spam." or "~= (\[eE]gg)\*.\*(\[sS]pam).\*(baked beans)\*".
  - `==`: Searches for an exact match to a given value.
  - `!=`: Opposite of `==`.
  - `~=`: Performs a regex.
- `item`: The item being queried. If given a structure like a dictionary it will
iterate over the structure, starting at the key (if given).
- `key`: The key to begin searching at. This can also be a value like
`key.subkey.subsubkey`, and searcher will recurse the structure until it reaches
the final key before beginning the search. In the previous example, this search
would start at `subsubkey`.

## Known issues

For compilation there are currently some workarounds that have to be done:

- Plugins must be added to the import statement that starts at line 20 in `chirp.run`.
- Requirements need to be specified in `setup.py`.
- Plugins must be added under `packages` in `setup.py`.

> Note: These issues are SPECIFICALLY for compilation. If you are running with python,
> plugins will run fine without these.
